# Markov Chain Text Generator
This project is a simple implementation of a Markov Chain text generator. It reads text from a file, breaks it down into n-grams (sequences of n characters), and uses these n-grams to generate new text that mimics the style of the input text.

# Macros
- `ORDER`: The order of ngrams that will be used for the program
- `VERBOSE`: Set to 1 for debugging, otherwise set to 0

# Structure
The project is structured around the MarkovChain struct, which holds the n-grams and the characters that follow each n-gram in the input text.

### Markov Chain Functions

- `ReadFile(char fileName[100])`: Reads a text file and returns its content as a string.
- `changingTextToNGrams(char* text, struct MarkovChain* m_chain, int length)`: Converts the input text into n-grams and stores them in the Markov Chain.
- `addingNextChar(char* text, struct MarkovChain* m_chain, int length)`: Adds the next character of each n-gram to the Markov Chain.
- `generateText(char* text, struct MarkovChain m_chain)`: Generates new text based on the Markov Chain.

### Menu Functions

- `displayMenu()`: Displays the main menu of the program.
- `displaySampleText(char* text)`: Displays the sample text that the Markov Chain is based on.
- `displayGeneratedText(char* text, struct MarkovChain *m_chain)`: Displays the text generated by the Markov Chain.

### Misc Functions

- `removeNulls(char ngram_array[][100], int array_length)`: Removes null values from the n-gram array.
- `getTrueArrayLength(char ngram_array[][100], int array_length)`: Returns the actual length of the n-gram array, not including null values.
- `getIndex(char ngram_array[][100], char ngram[ORDER+1], int array_length)`: Returns the index of a specific n-gram in the n-gram array.
- `getNonNullCount(char array[][100], int outer_length, int index)`: Returns the count of non-null values in a specific row of a 2D array.
- `countFileCharacters(char fileName[100])`: Returns the amount of characters in a file.

# Note
This project uses the Markov property, which states that the probability of each character depends only on the previous n characters (the n-gram). This allows it to generate text that is statistically similar to the input text, even though it doesn't understand the meaning of the text.

## Usage

To run the program, compile it and then run the resulting executable from the command line. You need to pass the path to the sample text file as a command line parameter. For example:

```bash
gcc -o executable *.c
executable ./sample_texts/sample1.txt
```

Otherwise the program is going to use the default file (./sample_texts/default.txt). Users can add their own sample text files. They need to ensure that their files fulfill the following requirements:
- It is a .txt file
- The .txt file has no more than 1000 characters
- Does not include excessive use of newline characters (could cause unspecified behavior)
